Bankhead mongooses are not early birds
it's an hour or so after first light
before the gang begins to emerge from
the termite mound where it spent the
night even now they're in no hurry to
get going after checking the coast is
clear this time is spent grooming and
confirming the bond between pack members
despite the apparent chaos of bodies
there is order in the ranks banded
mongooses are among the most social of
animals in Africa the group is led by
the oldest female it's she who usually
wakes up first and after ablutions are
dealt with she will decide when the pack
will head off and in which direction
such decisions are not taken lightly
being so small the banded mongoose is a
target for many of the hunters which
share their world martial eagles are a
dangerous threat but with so many eyes
on the lookout the Eagle stands little
chance of taking the gang by surprise
this defensive strategy is one of the
greatest advantages that comes from
being part of a large group any one of
the gang will perform Lookout duties as
they move off to their feeding areas as
a result there is almost always someone
with an eye out for danger as each stage
of their journey is checked the adults
huddle around the young until they get
the all-clear
as well as watching for trouble ahead
there is also a rearguard at the first
sign of danger mongooses make it very
clear for they spotted trouble the eagle
goes off in search of a less vigilant
prey